This is a pre-release of gsynth 0.5.  It is not very functional yet; the
only thing that works is the machine editor, the synthesizer core, and the
tracker.  The machine editor is about 90% complete and the tracker about
50%.  

To get this to work, you have to make install so it can find the shared
object modules (I usually ./configure --prefix=$HOME and install 'em in my
homedir).  

Fire it up, and you'll have a window with a "Master" box in the center.
Here's what you can do:

	- To move modules around, click and drag on 'em.
	- To add a module, right click and select "Add Module" from the
	  (single-element for now) popup menu.
	- To connect modules together, hold down shift and drag with the
	  left mouse button from the source to the destination.  Note that
	  modules which don't accept any input (also called generators)
	  won't allow you to connect anything to them.  Likewise you can't
	  connect anything with the master output as the source.
	- To remove or rename modules, right click on them.
	- To disconnect them, write the code to do it and send me the
	  patch.

So far the only modules are "TB303" and "Octave".  The former is a mostly
complete port of the original gsyn tb303 code.  Octave is a kludgey attempt
to lower the input an octave and send it to the output.  It doesn't do it
properly at all, but it sounds pretty interesting.

You can also go to the "Tracker" tab and select a machine in the listbox
and then click "Create Module".  You'll be asked for a pattern name and a
length.  When you create this pattern, it will show up in the tracker and
it will immediately be played in a loop by the module the pattern was
created for (though its initially blank so this isn't obvious).  When you
start entering notes/values they will play over and over while the sequence
loops.  I also have it restarting all module sequencers when any of the
sequencers loop, so your loops will be as long as the shortest pattern of
your machines.  This will change, of course, when I actually write a
sequencer.

The keys in the tracker are:

in note columns:
 s d   g h j
z x c v b n m ,  - notes

0-9		- octaves

.		- removes note, restores "..."

in hex number columns with a max range <= 9
0-9		- number

in hex number columns with a max range > 9
0-9		- 0 to 100% of maximum

I have plans to change that last one to something you can actually enter
values into, but for now it's easy to tweak.  I also have plans to restore
the knobs as a popup window for each module so they can be tweaked realtime
and written into the tracker simply by playing the pattern and dragging the
knobs.

Anyway, there's not much to it.  None of the toolbar buttons nor menu
choices (except for quit and about) are functional.  The notebook tab for
the sequencer will one day contain the sequencer.  As you can see, it's
going to take a bit of work before that happens.  

Let me know what you think so far.

-Andy <andy@guildsoftware.com>

